Define rate limiting of mDNS messages (#104)
rtcweb-wg/mdns-ice-candidates: draft-ietf-rtcweb-mdns-ice-candidates.md

A browser-wide mDNS message rate limit MUST be provided for all messages
that can be indirectly dispatched by a web application, namely the probing
queries, announcement responses, resolution queries, and goodbye responses
associated with mDNS. In addition to the multicast rate limiting defined in
{{RFC6762}}, for all mDNS queries including the probing queries, the interval
between any two queries SHOULD be at least one second. For mDNS responses, we
recommend the following rate limiting scheme that applies different restrictions
based on the mDNS message type.

1. Per-response rate limiting. Announcement ({{RFC6762}}, Section 8.3) and

>    goodbye ({{RFC6762}}, Section 10.1) responses SHOULD be limited per response

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   goodbye ({{RFC6762}}, Section 10.1) responses SHOULD be limited per-response
```

   on each interface so that the time elapsed between any two transmissions of
   mDNS responses containing the above messages is no less than one second on
   the given interface.

2. Per-record rate limiting. Responses containing resource records for name

>    resolution, and also negative responses to non-probing queries for non-existing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   resolution, as well as negative responses to non-probing queries for non-existing
```

   records of generated mDNS names, SHOULD be rate limited per record. The time elapsed

>    of any contained record must be no less than one second from the last time

Reviewer: This sentence is confusing. Could we say that a response that contains a given record MUST NOT be sent less than one second after any previous response that contains that record?

Author: > This sentence is confusing. Could we say that a response that contains a given record MUST NOT be sent less than one second after any previous response that contains that record?

This paragraph was trying to define two seperate queues of messages, and a response to a query was not blocked by a client-triggered response like an announcement. A scenario I have in mind is some ill-behaving app just creates a number of names to jam the first queue of announcements and goodbyes, but it would not be able to block a response to a legitimate query about a random name created by a different client. This has an implicit assumption about the implementation that the responder is shared among different clients like we do as a service. I will work on rewording the text, but what do you think about the idea?

Reviewer 2: Maybe this goes too much in details to a particular implementation. The queue could be put on each page or shared amongst all pages or all pages of a given origin.
Given that there is a browser-wide mDNS message limit, there could be some guidelines stating that a page should not be allowed to block other pages mDNS processing. This would lead to some per page or per origin budgeting.

Author: Updated with a different flavor of this PR for a simplified guideline. PTAL.

Reviewer: As @youennf mentions, this suggests some form of per-origin limit, since we are saying that the per-browser limit would not apply here (right?)

Or are we saying that responses don't count against the per-browser limit?

Reviewer 2: I am fine with @tQsW, what we really want is the browser limit for the network to be safe.
The browser should implement this limit in an intelligent manner, which might be a per-origin limit.
How about something like:
A browser SHOULD ensure that the mDNS processing done for one page does not block the mDNS processing done for another page, especially if these pages have different origins.

Author: I'm giving it another try.

Author: I'm giving it another try.

Author: @juberti we are trying to scope the per-browser limit to unsolicited messages that could be triggered from the local JS. For responses to external queries, we use the RFC recommended per-record limit on a per-origin basis.

Author: PTAL at the new patch.

Reviewer: It's not clear to me how the rate limit should work though. If we have a per-browser limit, and someone opens up a tab with iframes from multiple origins, how can we simultaneously protect the local network and ensure resolution for a specific origin still works?

FWIW, we have a similar problem on the ICE side, and there we just have a global limit.

Reviewer 2: This is an issue that happens in other parts of the web platform, like for fetch keep alive.
One possible answer is that the page owning these iframes might share its 'quota' with all its iframes, no matter whether same-origin or cross-origin. This quota would be shared for all pages of the given top level origin.
Agreed that, if the browser opens thousand of tabs with different origins at the same time, we might hit the per-browser limit.

Author: For our use case, unsolicited messages are not essential for resolving a candidate, and they are also the ones that can be relatively easy to exploit (by gathering). Queries for an mDNS name (after adding a remote candidate) and also the response to these queries however imply some form of connection establishment is running, and we could fall back to the less restrictive per-record limit. If some site intends to poison the local network with thousands of loopback peer connections, they could do so without exploiting the mDNS resolution mechanism. Let me know if this argument makes sense.

Reviewer: Not sure I follow the argument; couldn't an app jam in fake mDNS names to trigger queries that would hammer the local network with broadcast messages? Or am I misunderstanding the situation?

Generally I think we just want to require a hard cross-browser limit that prevents the abuses that we note in the document. Implementations can then implement more sophisticated and perhaps fair limits that prevent a bad origin from hurting good origins, if desired (and possible).

Author: I was thinking of jamming in fake remote candidates could launch a similar attack via mDNS queries as STUN pings; agreed this is actually worse, and there is no reason not just doing a global limit for mDNS if we do so for ICE.

How about just editing our original text: "A browser-wide mDNS message rate limit MUST be provided for all mDNS messages that can be dispatched in the ICE candidate gathering and processing"?

Reviewer 2: mDNS messages are broadcast, not STUN pings.

That said, the PR is using a MUST for a browser-wide limit to protect the network.
The PR is describing the issues that might arise within a browser with such a limit (which is good to describe) and is using a SHOULD in that case. That seems ok to me.

Reviewer: But the PR (at present) doesn't include queries, does it? Or am I misunderstanding?

My suggestion would be to edit the current PR to refer to all message types, and then say that the browser MAY implement its own more specific rate limits, e.g., to ensure a single origin doesn't prevent other origins from registering mDNS names.

Author: PTAL at the new patch.

   that a per-record rate-limited response that also contains this record is
   transmitted.

> 3. No rate limiting. Response, including negative responses, to probing queries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. No rate limiting. Responses to probing queries, including negative responses,
```
